# time-helm
Time Helm
you must admit that is a cool name.

Problem Statement. 

Having control of one's resources is nice. Doing so effortlessly is even nicer. Detailed time tracking is like detailed money tracking. You can waste a lot of energy on it if you don't automate it. But having it done causes great peace of mind!!

Mint https://mint.intuit.com/ has pretty graphs and reports, you don't do anything it just shows them. 

Anyway so there are two components, planning and reflection. 

Planning: Time block v1 contains my first attempt at automatically scheduling work blocks. For now I want to stick to 3 categories: deep work, freeform/light work, and learning/reading. The script reads my calendar and my shared calendar with Liron, and schedules events during my free time on a dedicated Time Blocks calendar. It doesn't edit or make events on any other calendars, just to be safe. It worked quite well! My biggest problem with it was that it didn't build in breaks between bloocks of different types, and also it would put way too many hours on a single day, unbalancing the week. Max hours in one day should be 8. anyway, biggest complaint is it's lack of awareness about what is reasonable in 1 day. It should schedule several hours of work per day in addition to whatever else i have planned, and just not schedule work if the time is too much that day, and maybe schedule a bit more on a light day with fewer plans. but doesn't have to have an exact total number of hours in the week per se.. second biggest complaint would be , lack of routine. The original script doesn't try to keep the same time blocks each day / each week, but I think it would be super nice to have similar time blocks each day and each week. That's why I created repeating calendar events tonight manually. But a script would be beneficial bc it would: make all of adjustments based on any events that randomly come up automatically, and 2) provide a simple report so i can see at glance, how many hours of meetings, how many hours of each type of work block, what's my longest and shrtest day, total hours planned to work that week, etc. maybe save somewhere idk. at the very least report it to me, either via print statement or whatever. What i have been doing is running the script on fridays sometime , and it manually schedles events for sunday thru the next friday . 

see examples here: 
https://teams.handsontek.net/2021/03/21/schedule-focus-time-automatically-calendar/ (i don't like outlook tho meh)
https://www.getclockwise.com/about (this is wayy too extra for one person)

Reflection: Time tracking can be done by Anita within Meistertask. https://www.meistertask.com/app/dashboard The most annoying thing is, if you have multiple projects you need to export each separately. The type of report I would like to see is all in the jupyter notebook. but other ideas are welcome, such as: how close did i cut it to self imposed deadlines? what time of day do i actually end up working? it would be nice for it to be sent to me automatically when I click one button on fridays, without me having to do anything else. Another button that would be extra & neat would be like, either a countdown or a "did i work as much as i was scheduled today?". like on a workout machine you say you want to workout 20 minutes and it starts a countdown. idk. that would be more dynamic, but even something static, like its 6pm im not sure how much work i have left today, click the button once , get a thing like "you worked 2 hours today, you planned to work 5 hours today, you have 3 more hours to meet your goal".  i think could be v helpful. also maybe an option to track streaks / how often i met my goals, with happy puppy pics as reward or something. EDIT: Okay one feature that would be really useful but isn't in the readme, is the option to add things to the report I forgot to time. Like, via email or s Google form or something on my phone maybe, so like if there's something I want to remember I did but didn't time, I would see a list of those as a footnote in the weekly time report if that makes sense?

Aspiration: combining the two! this is a total dream goal but it would be like, taking insights from the reflection category and applying it to the scheduling. one way is it could print a report summarizing total effort toward certain goals: e.g. "coding is something you usually do at night, and it usually takes you four days to do anything, minimum", so I can set more realistic expectations based on that info, or a second way is automatic <3 <3 , it would just take the info from the time tracking etc & use that to change the future scheduled events. but that is very extra but it just sounds super cool.

honestly i just want to outsource my time management to code, while also seeing summaries as pretty colorful plots and positive feedback meh
